/*
What is sequential Programming?
Step by step execution of program. here each and every statmenet is important order of execution will be linear one by one no statements will be skipped.

What is control flow statements?
In Java Program execution will top to bottom , execution flow be sequential but if we want to control execution flow of the program we have to use control flow statements

With the help control flow statements we can execute instructions on condition or we can skip statements on conditions.
we can do same task multiple times,
we can break the flow in the middle,
we can continue flow in the middle.

How many types of control flow statements?
1. decision making statements
2. iterative statements
3. jump statements

 decision making statements:
* here instructions will be executed if condition is true , if condition is false then instructions will skipped
* decision making statements will not repeate instructions , execution will be done only one time.

decision making statements divided into two types:
a. conditional statements
        1. if  2.  if else  3. else if 4. nested if or nested if else
b. case control statements
      switch



  "IF" Flow:
  if condition is true control move inside body and how many statements are there it will execute
  if condition is false then complete body part is skipped.
  
  1. always if should be in lowercase as it is keyword(error msg: The method If(boolean) is undefined for the type Sample)
  2. if follows with round braces inside that we have to write condition
      and condition expression must result to boolean type of data or u can write only boolean  datatype
 
    If we give other than boolean type of data 
    error msg:
    Type mismatch: cannot convert from int to boolean  
  3. do not end "if" with semicolon
     "if" is end with semicolon no compile time error and no run time error 
     but "if" terminate in the same line and below part comes under normal program not under "if" control.   
  4. can i write 100 statements or n of statements inside if body
    means if condition is true i want to execute morethan one line and if condition is false
       i want to skip morethan one line?
       yes
  5. Is braces is must?
      must:    if we write morethan one line under if condition
      optional: if we write only 1 line under if condition
  6. if we do not write braces i.e body for "if" then only one statement comes under "if" condition
   
    if else
    flow:
    if condition is true control will go inside if body and execute if body statements and else part is skipped
    
    if condition is false  if body is skipped and control directly jump to else body and in else there is no condition to be checked.
    
    1. In "if else" Program ,do not end "if" with semicolon
       if we end with semicolon then compiletime error will occur
       Reason: else cannot exist with out if
       ** if can exist without else
   2. Where if control ends immed write else part
     otherwise it will create compile time error
   3. same braces rules is appiled on else part
   
   Is braces is must?
      must:    if we write morethan one line under else part
      optional: if we write only 1 line under else part
    4. after else we can write semicolon which will not create any compile time error or runtime
      but below part comes under normal program not in else control.
    
 */