JDK--> Java Development Kit--> Software
We can write Programs in notepad and can run in cmd.

IDE
1. u can maintain n number of Projects
2. in built libs
3. u can download external plugins

1. Netbeans--> small scale, academic 2. Intilije 20% 3. Eclipse 80-90% 
Eclipse: 2020-12

Workspace:
What programs or projects we create inside eclipse
it has to store in local system in the form  folder
that place we called as workspace

How to create Project inside eclipse?
1. go to file
2. go to new-->click on project--> click on java folder
   --> select java project --> click next
3. Enter Project name
4. make sure JRE is 11 version
5. click on finish
6. click on do not create module
7. click no 
8. Project is created.

What is package in java?
package in java is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes,sub packages and interfaces.

a. Preventing naming conflicts
   In one project if we create two classes with same name 
   then we will be facing duplicate error
   to avoid we can create two classes with same name
    but in different packages
  now these classes will differ wrt package.
b. making searching/locating and usage of classes,interfaces easier.
c. Providing controlled access:
   Protected and default have package level access control.
A protected  Member is accessible by classes in the same and sub classes.


How to create package in project?
a. right click on src folder
b. go to new click on package
c. package name must start with lowercase alphabet no spaces
d. click on finish
e. empty package is created(white in color)


How to create class in particular package?
a. right click on package
b. go to new --> click on class
c. class template will be display
d. Enter Classname and follow classname rules
e. check public static void main(String args[]) stub
f. click on finish.
g. class will be created under package

Note : if we do not do rightclick on particular package then default package will be created and in that class will be created.

default package means that package will not have any name.
























