1. What is class?
In General class means example group of students
Why we called group of students as class?
beacause all students belongs to same category

Example:
GOD
Humans
Feature: eyes,nose,legs,hands,ears,color,hairs...
Functions: walk,talk,jump,run,laugh

bala,samreen,arun,sony....

A document in which faetures and functions are defined i.e known
as Class

A thing which is having identity,state,behaviour known as Object.

Technical defination for class:

Class is a collection of objects
class is a collection of variables and methods.
class is a template or blue print

Object: which is having state ,identity,behaviour


Example2:
Software company  ,myself CEO
Im calling one employee and sharing my idea about new mobile
and im asking him to work on it
but i have not given any document for reference 

Employee started work with his team --->  Day-1
Day2 myself---> im asking him to do changes in his work
Day3 myself---> im asking him to do changes in his finished work
day4 myself---> add new functions
Listen samreen i want to give a suggestion
if u keep on changing ur requirements then we cannot develop our product on time.
lets prepare one document in that will write all features,functions of mobile once it is finalized then we can start developing

therefore a document in which features,functions are written known as class
and outcome i.e mobiles called as object.


What is class in java ?
class is a keyword all ways write in lowercase only.
class follows with classname
and no semicolon
and follows with body i.e open brace and close brace
inside that will write code.

class Classname
{
code
}

Rules to write classname?
Classname is user defined(means we can give any name but follow below rules)
1. Class name must start with uppercase alphabet, lower case alphabet is acceptable but it is warning according to naming convention rules of java 
class name starts with uppercase alphabet.
2. class name should not start with numbers or special characters
3. class name should not contain spaces.

classname as "sample" here "s" is lowercase no errors but it is warning
according to the naming convention rules of java always class name must start with uppercase alphabets

classname as Sample valid
classname as 9sample invaild
classname as *sample invalid
classname as Sample9 valid
classname as Sample Program invalid
classname as Sample_Program valid


Inside class body we have to write code this code will not run 
because there is no main method.

What is main method in java?
main is method ,inside that "main body" what code we will write and what code we call it will only execute 
and progarm execution and termination will done inside main method.

public static void main (String args[])
{
//logic
}



public static void main (String args[])--> main method signature or method header
{
//logic
}  main method body

signature+body=main method defination

public Access specifier method scope is through out project
static memory will allocate at compiletime
void nothing it will not return anything
main method name
String classname
args name
[] array symbol

String args[]  cammonad line parameter

{
logic;

}

1. Why main method is public why can't it will be private protected or default?

because JVM will look for main method if it is public then only it is visible , if we write other than public it will create Run time Excpetion.

2. Why main method is void ?
void means no returntype

if any method is having returntype
lets say one method job is to find total 
after calculating total it will return total
and this total u can use for other purpose example finding percentage
but if main method return something we cannot use because program will terminates with main method


About 
System.out.println();

To display a String or text or any msg or result or variable data on console will use System.out.println();

What is println()?
println() is a method to display text or results.
Type: it is predefined method
define in class: PrintStream
Package: java.io

Now if we want to call any method from PrintStream class
we have to call by using PrintStream.println()--> it is not allowed in java

A Predefined class called System it is defined inside a package called java.lang

System is predefine class
inside System class there is a static method called as out
which will return or point towards PrintStream class

System.out--> indirectly ur creating object for PrintStream
System.out.println();-->method

Java Program Structure:
class Classname
{
public static void main(String args[])

{
System.out.println("Hello welcome");
}
}


Why we cannot call println() by using PrintStream?

1. Methods inside Printstream is non static ---> if we want to call , call with Object name.
2. Inside PrintStream methods are protected
3. out--> OutputStream --> it does not have PrintStream methods.

final PrintStream instream = new PrintStream(new FileOutPutStream(new Filename(filename)));
instream.println("Hi");


Package:  java.lang
   class  System
      method: out  --> return PrintStream Object

System.out.println();

The System class contains several useful class fields and methods. It cannot be instantiated.Among the facilities provided by the System class are standard input, standard output, and error output streams;access to externally defined properties and environmentvariables; a means of loading files and libraries; and a utility method for quickly copying a portion of an array.



The "standard" output stream. This stream is alreadyopen and ready to accept output data. Typically this streamcorresponds to display output or another output destinationspecified by the host environment or user. 

For simple stand-alone Java applications, a typical way to write a line of output data is: 

     System.out.println(data)


Prints a String and then terminate the line. This method behaves as though it invokes print(String) and then println().

Println()--> Print+go to new Line

print("Hello");
println("Welcome");


HelloWelcome





class Classname
{
public static void main(String args[])
{

System.out.println();
}
}
 

















































  



























